Reflected aria attributes containing element references (#38678)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/element/ariacontrolselements/index.md

---
title: "Element: ariaControlsElements property"
short-title: ariaControlsElements
slug: Web/API/Element/ariaControlsElements
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.Element.ariaControlsElements
---

{{APIRef("DOM")}}

The **`ariaControlsElements`** property of the {{domxref("Element")}} interface is an array containing the elements that are controlled by the element it is applied to.
For example, this might be set on a [combobox](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles/combobox_role) to indicate the element that it pops up, or on a [`scrollbar`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles/scrollbar_role) to indicate the ID of the element it controls.

The [`aria-controls`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Attributes/aria-controls) topic contains additional information about how the attribute and property should be used.

## Value

An array of subclasses of {{domxref("HTMLElement")}}, representing the elements that are controlled by this element.

> When read, the returned array is a static and read-only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When read, the returned array is static and read-only.
```

? or even just "read-only"?

Author: My understanding is that "it is possible" that in general you might be handed an array that you can't modify, but that might still be modified by the supplier - i.e. it might be read only but still updated if the attribute changes. 

However this is static - no one can modify it after creation.

It may be that I am wrong and that read only always means static in JavaScript?

---
title: "Element: ariaControlsElements property"
short-title: ariaControlsElements
slug: Web/API/Element/ariaControlsElements
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.Element.ariaControlsElements
---

{{APIRef("DOM")}}

> The **`ariaControlsElements`** property of the {{domxref("Element")}} interface is an array containing the element (or elements) that are controlled by the element it is applied to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`ariaControlsElements`** property of the {{domxref("Element")}} interface is an array containing the elements that are controlled by the element it is applied to.
```

picky but it's an obvious simplification.

Reviewer: This change doesn't seem to be made?

Reviewer: This change doesn't seem to be made?

For example, this might be set on a [combobox](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles/combobox_role) to indicate the element that it pops up, or on a [`scrollbar`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Roles/scrollbar_role) to indicate the ID of the element it controls.

The [`aria-controls`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Attributes/aria-controls) topic contains additional information about how the attribute and property should be used.

## Value

> An array of elements that are controlled by this element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An array of subclasses of {{domxref("HTMLElement")}}, representing the elements that are controlled by this element.
```

## Description

The property is a flexible alternative to using the [`aria-controls`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Attributes/aria-controls) attribute to set the controlled elements.

> Unlike `aria-controls`, the elements assigned to this property do not have to have an `id`: they can be selected.

Reviewer: Same comment as in the other page.

Author: ```suggestion
Unlike `aria-controls`, the elements assigned to this property do not have to have an [`id`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/id) attribute.
```

> This can be convenient as it avoids having to unnecessarily create ids for elements in order to set them as controlled.

Reviewer: This sentence isn't present in the other page although it applies just as much there. I thought it was an odd expression: the id attributes are not unnecessary, they are necessary exactly for this purpose.

tbh I don't think this sentence is needed, the implication of the previous one is surely obvious.

The property reflects the [`aria-controls`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Attributes/aria-controls) attribute when it is defined, but only for listed reference `id` values that match valid in-scope elements.

> If the property is set, then the corresponding attribute is cleared.

Reviewer: Question, I forgot to ask about the guide page: this is an array, what happens to the attribute if I append or delete an element, is it still cleared?

Author: OK, so the property appears to return a read-only fixed array. If you try to add an element to the array you get a TypeError. If you update the attribute the previously returned array is not modified, so you'd have to read the property again to get the current value. 
In other words, not possible to update the array, you can only reassign a new value to the property. I will modify these everywhere to note that a read-only array is returned.

  panel1.style.display = isExpanded ? "none" : "block";
  panel1.setAttribute("aria-hidden", isExpanded); //true when hidden, false when shown.

  panel2.style.display = isExpanded ? "none" : "block";
  panel2.setAttribute("aria-hidden", isExpanded); //true when hidden, false when shown.
});
```

Next the example gets the value of the `aria-controls` attribute with {{domxref("Element.getAttribute()")}} (a string listing the `id` values of the referenced elements).
It then checks whether the `ariaControlsElements` property is supported, and if so, logs its value.
Finally it returns and logs the inner text of each of the controlled elements.

```js
log(`aria-controls: ${toggleButton.getAttribute("aria-controls")}`);
// Feature test for ariaControlsElements
if ("ariaControlsElements" in Element.prototype) {
  // Get ariaControlsElements
  const controlledElements = toggleButton.ariaControlsElements;
  log(`ariaControlsElements: ${controlledElements}`);

  // List innerText for each of the ariaControlsElements
  let textOfControllingElements = "";
  controlledElements.forEach((controlled) => {
    textOfControllingElements += `"${controlled.textContent.trim()}" `;
  });

>   log(`Controlled element text: ${textOfControllingElements.trim()}`);

Reviewer: As in the guide page, it would be really nice to avoid the horizontal scroll here.

Author: I think I have fixed this in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/38678/commits/29b8f88ea3280b219cba659a347bc323874520e9

} else {
  log("element.ariaControlsElements: not supported by browser");
}
```

#### Result

Click the button below to show and hide the panels.
The log shows the original element references, the associated/returned elements, and the inner text of each element.

{{EmbedLiveSample("Get the controlled elements","100%","280px")}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- [`aria-controls`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Reference/Attributes/aria-controls) attribute
- {{domxref("ElementInternals.ariaControlsElements")}}

> - [Reflected element references](2/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Reflected_attributes#reflected_element_references) in the _Attribute reflection_ guide

Reviewer 2: Maybe check for other places this might be:

```suggestion
- [Reflected element references](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Reflected_attributes#reflected_element_references) in the _Attribute reflection_ guide
```

Reviewer 2: It's in a few other docs, so I won't point it out everywhere.

Author: Thanks. I'll do a check after merging this.
